Ikla, the SkyPainter: Ikla’s artistic prowess and talent are
unmatched, painting the skies of each weekly sunrise and
sunset over Fanewick in a myriad of scintillating colors.
They could not be lazier the rest of the week, and their
demeanor is exceedingly unpleasant, offended that anyone
would ask a favor of them during their time off.
Oove, theWatcherofthe Night Bloom: He is one of the
few local gods who has never been seen, but he is often
heard in the wilds at night, whispering directions to lost
travelers, pointing them to the nearest source of night
bloom. Locals claim he leads those who displease him
or harm nocturnal creatures into dangerous terrain. It’s
rumored that he watches over Fanewick nights from his
home on the moon.
Qui’Gar,Whispered Sweetness foraThornyEnd: A quiet
god who presides over the deaths of those who pass in
thorny bushes and briar patches. Traditionally, she doesn’t
receive manyvisitors, but the Witherwild’s corruptive
growth has made her job harder and upended her quiet
existence.
Rohkin, theWandering Horn: Rohkin watches over the
many herds of horned creatures that reside in Fanewick.
In happier times, he preserved the balance of nature
and civilization, preventing overhunting. But since the
corruption of the Witherwild has taken hold, he’s seen his
herds change into unrecognizable, dangerous beasts.
These are but a small slice of the hundreds, if not thousands,
of Faint Divinities lurking, relaxing, hunting, and playing
throughout Fanewick.
What Faint Divinities do the PCs acknowledge and pay
tribute to, if any?
How has the Witherwild changed the outlook, personality,
and dispositions of the Faint Divinities the characters
encounter?
Which gods ally themselves with Haven to preserve the
endless spring? Which align with Fanewick?
THE INCITING INCIDENT
You can use the prompt below to start your campaign, or create
your own.
The Reaping Eye is stowed in a secure vault beneath the
central tower of Haven’s wizarding school, seemingly
impossible to recover. A secretive and dangerous rebel group,
led by a mysterious figure known only as the Fanewraith (she/
her), has hatched a plan to end the curse of the Witherwild:
find the Great Owl, Nikta, and pluck out the Sowing Eye.
While this may solve the immediate problem, the long-term
consequences are not being considered, just as they weren’t
when Haven invaded.
Haven’s beleaguered spymaster, Kreil Dirn (he/him), is not
a popular person in Haven. He is responsible for rooting out
insurgents, stopping schemes before they have a chance to
start, and keeping a close watch on Haven’s internal activities.
Kreil has never agreed—at least not openly—with Archmage
Phylax’s (they/them) decision to steal the Reaping Eye, and
the consequences they’ve all paid for that decision have been
grimlyvindicating.
Recently, Kreil uncovered the Fanewraith’s plot and is horrified
by the possibility of her success. Knowing he can’t send a
troop of Haven soldiers deep into the woods to hunt down and
stop the Fanewraith from stealing the Sowing Eye, Kreil uses
his vast network of informants and spies to find a group of
adventurers who can bring the Fanewraith to swift justice.
The party is sent an invitation from Haven to meet with
Kreil. But is his information correct? Does he have his own
motivation or secret ambition? Whether they come from
Fanewick or Haven, the party must extend some trust to a
person who is equally as dangerous and mercurial as the
“enemy” they pursue. And what will they do when they find the
Fanewraith? Bring her to justice? Side with her? Attempt to
recover the Reaping Eye?
Kreil advises the party to start their hunt for the Fanewraith
in the treetop village ofAlula, where he suspects she runs her
operation.
CAMPAIGN MECHANICS
The following mechanics are unique to this campaign.
CORRUPTION FROMTHEWITHERWILD
Adversaries and environments in this campaign can gain
an additional type called Withered. When an adversary is
Withered, describe how the Witherwild changed or impacted
how they would normally appear or operate. You also need
about 20 Wither tokens (these can be the same as the tokens
you use for Fear).
Any time a PC takes Severe damage from a Withered
adversary or environment, gain a Wither token and place it
on that PC’s character sheet. When you do, the PC must roll
their Fear Die. If they roll equal to or below the number of
Wither tokens on their sheet, they immediately gain a scar and
clear all tokens, describing how the Witherwild changes them
permanently.
At the end of each session, clear all Wither tokens from the
PCs’ sheets and gain an equal amount of Fear. If a character
ever dies with Wither tokens on their sheet, their body is
permanently taken over by the Witherwild.
SESSION ZERO QUESTIONS
Ask any of these questions to your players, or make your own.
What dangerous animal comes out during the week of night
that isn’t out during the week of day?
What unique trait (such as appearance, smell, or taste)
does anything tainted by the Witherwild have?
What superstitions does your character or their community
have about traversing Fanewick during the long nights?
Your character has witnessed something beautiful that
came from the Witherwild. What is it and how has it
transformed their view of the corruption?
APPENDIX
This section contains additional information and reference sheets.
Domain Card reference
ARCANA DOMAIN
RUNEWARD
Level 1Arcana Spell
Recall Cost: 0
You have a deeply personal trinket that can be infused with
protective magic and held as a ward byyou or an ally. Describe
what it is and why it’s important to you. The ward’s holder can
spend a Hope to reduce incoming damage by 1d8.
If the Ward Die result is 8, the ward’s power ends after it
reduces damage this turn. It can be recharged for free
on your next rest.
UNLEASH CHAOS
Level 1Arcana Spell
Recall Cost: 1
At the beginning of a session, place a number of tokens equal
to your Spellcast trait on this card.
Make a Spellcast Roll against a target within Far range and
spend any number of tokens to channel raw energy from within
yourself to unleash against them. On a success, roll a number
of d10s equal to the tokens you spent and deal that much
magic damage to the target. Mark a Stress to replenish this
card with tokens (up to your Spellcast trait).
At the end of each session, clear all unspent tokens.
WALLWALK
Level 1Arcana Spell
Recall Cost: 1
Spend a Hope to allow a creature you can touch to climb on
walls and ceilings as easily as walking on the ground. This lasts
until the end of the scene oryou cast Wall Walk again
CINDER GRASP
Level 2Arcana Spell
Recall Cost: 1
Make a Spellcast Roll against a target within Melee range.
On a success, the target instantly bursts into flames, takes
1d20+3 magic damage, and is temporarily lit On Fire.
When a creature acts while On Fire, they must take an extra
2d6 magic damage if they are still On Fire at the end of their
action.
FLOATING EYE
Level 2Arcana Spell
Recall Cost: 0
Spend a Hope to create a single, small floating orb that you
can move anywhere within Very Far range. While this spell is
active, you can see through the orb as though you’re looking
out from its position. You can transition between using your
own senses and seeing through the orb freely. If the orb takes
damage or moves out of range, the spell ends.
COUNTERSPELL
Level 3Arcana Spell
Recall Cost: 2
You can interrupt a magical effect taking place by making a
reaction roll using your Spellcast trait. On a success, the effect
stops and any consequences are avoided, and this card is
placed in yourvault.
FLIGHT
Level 3Arcana Spell
Recall Cost: 1
Make a Spellcast Roll (15). On a success, place a number of
tokens equal to yourAgility on this card (minimum 1). When
you make an
action roll while flying, spend a token from this card. After the
action that spends the last token is resolved,
you descend to the ground directly belowyou.
BLINK OUT
Level 4Arcana Spell
Recall Cost: 1
Make a Spellcast Roll (12). On a success, spend a Hope to
teleport to another point you can see within Far range. If
any willing creatures are within Very Close range, spend an
additional Hope for each creature to bring them with you.
PRESERVATION BLAST
Level 4Arcana Spell
Recall Cost: 2
Make a Spellcast Roll against all targets within Melee range.
Targets you succeed against are forced back to Far range and
take d8+3 magic damage using your Spellcast trait.
CHAIN LIGHTNING
Level 5Arcana Spell
Recall Cost: 1
Mark 2 Stress to make a Spellcast Roll, unleashing lightning
on all targets within Close range. Targets you succeed against
must make a reaction roll with a Difficulty equal to the result of
your Spellcast Roll. Targets who fail take 2d8+4 magic damage.
Additional adversaries not already targeted by Chain Lightning
and within Close range of previous targets who took damage
must also make the reaction roll. Targets who fail take 2d8+4
magic damage. This chain continues until there are no more
adversaries within range.
119 118 Daggerheart SRD Daggerheart SRDPREMONITION
Level 5Arcana Spell
Recall Cost: 2
You can channel arcane energy to have visions of the future.
Once per long rest, immediately after the GM conveys the
consequences of a roll you made, you can rescind the move
and consequences like they never happened and make another
move instead.
RIFTWALKER
Level 6Arcana Spell
Recall Cost: 2
Make a Spellcast Roll (15). On a success, you place an arcane
marking on the ground where you currently stand. The next
time you successfully cast Rift Walker, a rift in space opens
up, providing safe passage back to the exact spot where the
marking was placed. This rift stays open until you choose to
close it oryou cast another spell.
You can drop the spell at any time to cast Rift Walker again and
place the marking somewhere new.
TELEKINESIS
Level 6Arcana Spell
Recall Cost: 0
Make a Spellcast Roll against a target within Far range. On
a success, you can use your mind to move them anywhere
within Far range of their original position. You can throw the
lifted target as an attack by making an additional Spellcast Roll
against the second target you’re trying to attack. On a success,
deal d12+4 physical damage to the second target using your
Proficiency. This spell then ends.
ARCANA-TOUCHED
Level 7ArcanaAbility
Recall Cost: 2
When 4 or more of the domain cards in your loadout are from
the Arcana domain, gain the following benefits:
• +1 bonus to your Spellcast Rolls
• Once per rest, you can switch the results of your Hope and
Fear Dice.
CLOAKING BLAST
Level 7Arcana Spell
Recall Cost: 2
When you make a successful Spellcast Roll to cast a different
spell, you can spend a Hope to become Cloaked. While
Cloaked, you remain unseen if you are stationary when an
adversary moves to where they would normally see you. When
you move into or within an adversary’s line of sight or make an
attack, you are no longer Cloaked.
ARCANE REFLECTION
Level 8Arcana Spell
Recall Cost: 1
When you would take magic damage, you can spend any
numberofHope to roll that many d6s. If any roll a 6, the
attack is reflected back to the caster, dealing the damage to
them instead.
CONFUSINGAURA
Level 8Arcana Spell
Recall Cost: 2
Make a Spellcast Roll (14). Once per long rest on a success,
you create a layer of illusion overyour body that makes it hard
to tell exactly where you are. Mark anynumberofStress
to make that many additional layers. When an adversary
makes an attack against you, roll a number of d6s equal to
the number of layers currently active. If any roll a 5 or higher,
one layer of the aura is destroyed and the attack fails. If all the
results are 4 or lower, you take the damage and this spell ends
EARTHQUAKE
Level 9Arcana Spell
Recall Cost: 2
Make a Spellcast Roll (16). Once per rest on a success, all
targets within Very Far range who aren’t flying must make
a Reaction Roll (18). Targets who fail take 3d10+8 physical
damage and are temporarily Vulnerable. Targets who succeed
take half damage.
Additionally, when you succeed on the Spellcast Roll, all terrain
within Very Far range becomes difficult to move through and
structures within this range might sustain damage or crumble.
SENSORYPROJECTION
Level 9Arcana Spell
Recall Cost: 0
Once per rest, make a Spellcast Roll (15). On a success,
drop into a vision that lets you clearly see and hear any place
you have been before as though you are standing there in
this moment. You can move freely in this vision and are not
constrained by the physics or impediments of a physical body.
This spell cannot be detected by mundane or magical means.
You drop out of this vision upon taking damage or casting
another spell.
ADJUSTREALITY
Level 10Arcana Spell
Recall Cost: 1
Afteryou or a willing ally make any roll, you can spend 5 Hope
to change the numerical result of that roll to a result of your
choice instead. The result must be plausible within the range
of the dice.
FALLING SKY
Level 10Arcana Spell
Recall Cost: 1
Make a Spellcast Roll against all adversaries within Far range.
Mark anynumberofStress to make shards of arcana rain
down from above. Targets you succeed against take 1d20+2
magic damage for each Stress marked.
BLADE DOMAIN
GETBACK UP
Level 1 BladeAbility
Recall Cost: 1
When you take Severe damage, you can mark a Stress to
reduce the severity by one threshold.
NOTGOOD ENOUGH
Level 1 BladeAbility
Recall Cost: 1
When you roll your damage dice, you can reroll any 1s or 2s.
WHIRLWIND
Level 1 BladeAbility
Recall Cost: 0
When you make a successful attack against a target within
Very Close range, you can spend a Hope to use the attack
against all other targets within Very Close range. All additional
adversaries you succeed against with this ability take half
damage.
ASOLDIER’S BOND
Level 2 BladeAbility
Recall Cost: 1
Once per long rest, when you compliment someone or ask
them about something they’re good at,
you can both gain 3 Hope.
RECKLESS
Level 2 BladeAbility
Recall Cost: 1
Mark a Stress to gain advantage on
an attack.
SCRAMBLE
Level 3 BladeAbility
Recall Cost: 1
Once per rest, when a creature within Melee range would deal
damage to you, you can avoid the attack and safely move out
of Melee range of the enemy.
VERSATILE FIGHTER
Level 3 BladeAbility
Recall Cost: 1
You can use a different character trait for an equipped weapon,
rather than the trait the weapon calls for.
When you deal damage, you can mark a Stress to use the
maximum result of one of your damage dice instead of rolling
it.
DEADLYFOCUS
Level 4 BladeAbility
Recall Cost: 2
Once per rest, you can apply all your focus toward a target of
your choice. Until you attack another creature, you defeat the
target, or the battle ends, gain a +1 bonus to your Proficiency.
FORTIFIEDARMOR
Level 4 BladeAbility
Recall Cost: 0
While you are wearing armor, gain a +2 bonus to your damage
thresholds.
CHAMPION’S EDGE
Level 5 BladeAbility
Recall Cost: 1
When you critically succeed on an attack, you can spend up to
3 Hope and choose one of the following options for each Hope
spent:
• You clear a Hit Point.
• You clear an Armor Slot.
• The target must mark an additional Hit Point.
You can’t choose the same option more than once.
VITALITY
Level 5 BladeAbility
Recall Cost: 0
When you choose this card, permanently gain two of the
following benefits:
• One Stress slot
• One Hit Point slot
• +2 bonus to your damage thresholds
Then place this card in yourvault permanently.
BATTLE-HARDENED
Level 6 BladeAbility
Recall Cost: 2
Once per long rest when you would make a Death Move, you
can spend a Hope to clear a Hit Point instead.
RAGE UP
Level 6 BladeAbility
Recall Cost: 1
Before you make an attack, you can mark a Stress to gain a
bonus to your damage roll equal to twice your Strength.
You can Rage Up twice per attack.
BLADE-TOUCHED
Level 7 BladeAbility
Recall Cost: 1
When 4 or more of the domain cards in your loadout are from
the Blade domain, gain the following benefits:
• +2 bonus to your attack rolls
• +4 bonus to your Severe damage threshold
GLANCING BLOW
Level 7 BladeAbility
Recall Cost: 1
When you fail an attack, you can mark a Stress to deal weapon
damage using half your Proficiency.
BATTLE CRY
Level 8 BladeAbility
Recall Cost: 2
Once per long rest, while you’re charging into danger, you can
muster a rousing call that inspires your allies. All allies who
can hearyou each clear a Stress and gain a Hope. Additionally,
your allies gain advantage on attack rolls until you or an ally
rolls a failure with Fear.
121 120 Daggerheart SRD Daggerheart SRD