GROUPACTION ROLLS
When multiple PCs take action together, the party chooses
one PC to lead the action. Each other player then describes
how their character collaborates on the task. The leader
makes an action roll as usual, while the other players make
reaction rolls using whichever traits they and the GM decide
fit best.
The lead character gains a +1 bonus to their lead action roll for
each of these reaction rolls that succeeded and a −1 penalty
for each these reaction rolls that failed.
TAGTEAM ROLLS
Each player can, once per session, initiate a TagTeam Roll
between their character and another PC by spending 3 Hope.
The players work with one another to describe how they
combine their actions in a unique and exciting way. Both
players make separate action rolls; before resolving the roll’s
outcome, choose one of the rolls to apply to both actions. On
a roll with Hope, all PCs involved gain a Hope. On a roll with
Fear, the GM gains a Fear token for each PC involved.
On a successful Tag Team attack roll, both players roll damage
and add the totals together to determine the damage dealt,
which is then treated as if it came from a single source. If the
attacks deal different types of damage, the players choose
which type to deal.
Notes:
ATag Team Roll counts as a single action roll for the
purposes of any countdowns or features that track action
rolls.
Though each player may only initiate one Tag Team Roll per
session, one PC can be involved in multiple Tag Team Rolls.
ADVANTAGE & DISADVANTAGE
Some features and effects let you roll with advantage or
disadvantage on an action or reaction roll:
• Advantage represents an opportunity that you seize to
increase your chances of success. When you roll with
advantage, you roll a d6 advantage die with your dice pool
and add its result to your total.
• Disadvantage represents an additional difficulty, hardship,
or challenge you face when attempting an action. When
you roll with disadvantage, you roll a d6 disadvantage die
with your dice pool and subtract its result from your total.
Advantage or disadvantage can be granted or imposed by
mechanical triggers or at the GM’s discretion. When a PC aids
you with Help an Ally, they roll their own advantage die and
you add it to your total.
Advantage and disadvantage dice cancel each out, one-for-
one, when they would be added to the same dice pool, so
you’ll never roll both at the same time. If you have advantage
or disadvantage from other sources that don’t affect your own
dice pool, such as another player’s Help an Ally move, their
effects stack with your rolled results.
HOPE & FEAR
Hope and Fear are metacurrencies representing the cosmic
forces that shape the events of your table’s story. Hope
powers PC abilities and features, while Fear powers the
abilities of the GM and the adversaries and environments they
control.
HOPE
Every PC starts with 2 Hope at character creation and gains
more throughout play. A PC can have a maximum of 6 Hope at
one time, and Hope carries over between sessions.
Players can spend Hope to:
• Help anAlly
When you Help an Ally who is making an action roll,
describe how you do so and roll an advantage die. Multiple
players can spend Hope to help the same acting player,
but that player only adds the highest result to their final
total.
• Utilize an Experience
When you Utilize an Experience on a relevant roll, add its
modifier to the result. You can spend multiple Hope to
utilize multiple Experiences.
• Initiate aTagTeam Roll
Spend 3 Hope to initiate a Tag Team roll, combining the
actions of two PCs into one impressive act of synergy.
When you make a Tag Team roll, both players roll their
action rolls and then choose which set of results to apply
to the outcome.
• Activate a Hope Feature
A Hope Feature is any effect that allows (or requires) you
to spend a specified amount of Hope to activate it. Class
Hope features are class-specific features, detailed on your
character sheet, that cost 3 Hope to activate.
Note: When using a Hope Feature, ifyou rolled with Hope
for that action, the Hope you gain from that roll can be spent
on that feature (or toward it, if it requires spending multiple
Hope).
FEAR
The GM gains Fear whenever a player rolls with Fear and can
spend Fear at any time to make or enhance a GM move or to
use a Fear Feature. The GM can have up to 12 Fear at one
time. Fear carries over between sessions.
COMBAT
Though Daggerheart relies on the same flow of collaborative
storytelling in and out of combat, physical conflicts rely
more heavily on several key mechanics related to attacking,
maneuvering, and taking damage.
EVASION
Evasion represents a character’s ability to avoid attacks and
other unwanted effects. Any roll made against a PC has a
Difficulty equal to the target’s Evasion. A PC’s base Evasion
is determined by their class, but can be modified by domain
cards, equipment, conditions, and other effects.
Note: attacks rolled against adversaries use the target’s
Difficulty instead of Evasion.
HIT POINTS & DAMAGE
THRESHOLDS
Hit Points (HP) represent a character’s ability to withstand
physical injury. When a character takes damage, they mark 1
to 3 HP, based on their damage thresholds:
• If the final damage is at or above the character’s Severe
damage threshold, they mark 3 HP.
• If the final damage is at or above the character’s Major
damage threshold but below their Severe damage
threshold, they mark 2 HP.
• If the final damage is below the character’s Major damage
threshold, they mark 1 HP.
• If incoming damage is ever reduced to 0 or less, no HP is
marked.
You’ll be able to increase the number of Hit Point slots you
have available as you level up, to a maximum of 12.
A PC’s damage thresholds are calculated by adding their level
to the listed damage thresholds of their equipped armor. A
PC’s starting HP is based on their class, but they can gain
additional Hit Points through advancements, features, and
other effects.
An adversary’s Damage Thresholds and HP are listed in their
stat blocks.
When a character marks their last Hit Point, they fall. If a PC
falls, they make a death move.
Characters can clear Hit Points by taking downtime moves
(see: Downtime) or by activating relevant special abilities or
effects.
Optional Rule: Massive Damage
If a character ever takes damage equal to twice their
Severe threshold, they mark 4 HP instead of 3.
STRESS
Stress represents how much mental, physical, and emotional
strain a character can endure. All classes start with 6 Stress
slots. You’ll be able to increase the number of Stress slots
you have available as you level up, to a maximum of 12. Some
special abilities or effects require the character activating
them to mark Stress, and the GM can require a PC to mark
Stress as a GM move or to represent the cost, complication,
or consequence of an action roll.
When a character marks their last Stress, they become
Vulnerable (see: Conditions) until they clear at least 1 Stress.
When a character must mark 1 or more Stress but can’t, they
mark 1 HP instead. A character can’t use a move that requires
them to mark Stress if all of their Stress is marked.
PCs can clear Stress by making downtime moves (see:
Downtime). A PC’s maximum Stress is determined by their
class, but they can increase it through advancements, abilities,
and other effects.
ATTACKING
ATTACK ROLLS
An attack roll is an action roll intended to inflict harm. The
trait that applies to an attack roll is specified by the weapon
or spell being used. Unarmed attack rolls use either Strength
or Finesse (GM’s choice). An attack roll’s Difficulty, unless
otherwise noted, is equal to the Difficulty score of its target.
DAMAGE ROLLS
On a successful attack, roll damage. Damage is calculated
from the damage roll listed in the attack’s description with the
format “xdy+[modifier]” (e.g., for a spell that inflicts “1d8+2”
damage, you roll an eight-sided and add 2 to the result; the
damage dealt is equal to the total).
Any time an effect says to deal damage using your Spellcast
trait, you roll a number of dice equal to your Spellcast trait.
Note: Ifyour Spellcast trait is +0 or lower, you don’t roll
anything.
For weapons, the number of damage dice you roll is equal
to your Proficiency. Note that your Proficiency multiplies the
number of dice you roll, but doesn’t affect the modifier. For
example, a PC with Proficiency 2 and wielding a weapon with a
damage rating of “d8+2” deals damage equal to “2d8+2” on a
successful attack.
Successful unarmed attacks inflict [Proficiency]d4 damage.
CRITICALDAMAGE
When you get a critical success (i.e., you roll matching values
on your Duality Dice) on an attack roll, you deal extra damage.
Make the damage roll as usual, but add the maximum possible
result of the damage dice to the final total. For instance, if an
attack would normally deal 2d8+1 damage, a critical success
would deal 2d8+1+16.
39 38 Daggerheart SRD Daggerheart SRDDAMAGETYPES
There are two damage types: physical damage (phy) and
magic damage (mag). Unless stated otherwise, mundane
weapons and unarmed attacks deal physical damage, and
spells deal magic damage.
RESISTANCE, IMMUNITY,AND DIRECT
DAMAGE
If a target has resistance to a damage type, then they reduce
incoming damage of that type by half before comparing it to
their Hit Point Thresholds. If the target has additional ways
of reducing incoming damage, such as marking Armor Slots,
they apply the resistance effect first. The effects of multiple
resistances to the same damage type do not stack.
If a target has immunity to a damage type, they ignore
incoming damage of that type.
If an attack deals both physical and magic damage, a
character can only benefit from resistance or immunity if they
are resistant or immune to both damage types.
Direct damage is damage that can’t be reduced by marking
Armor Slots.
MULTI-TARGETATTACK ROLLS
If a spell or ability allows you to target multiple adversaries,
make one attack roll and one damage roll, then apply the
results to each target individually.
MULTIPLE DAMAGE SOURCES
Damage dealt simultaneously from multiple sources is always
totaled before it’s compared to its target’s damage thresholds.
For example, if a PC with orc ancestry makes a successful
attack against a target in Melee range and decides to
spend a Hope to use their “Tusks” feature (which gives
them an extra 1d6 damage on a damage roll), they would
roll their normal weapon damage and add a d6 to the
result, then deal that total damage to the adversary.
MAPS, RANGE,
AND MOVEMENT
You can play Daggerheart using “theater of the mind” or maps
and miniatures. The conversions below from abstract ranges
to physical measurements assume 1 inch of map represents
about 5 feet of fictional space.
Daggerheart uses the following ranges to translate fictional
positioning into relative distance for the purposes of targeting,
movement, and other game mechanics:
Melee: Close enough to touch, up to a few feet away.
VeryClose: Close enough to see fine details, about 5–10
feet away. While in danger, a character can move, as part
of their action, from Very Close range into Melee range. On
a map: anything within the shortest length of a game card
(2-3 inches).
Close: Close enough to see prominent details, about
10–30 feet away. While in danger, a character can move,
as part of their action, from Close range into Melee range.
On a map: anything within the length of a pencil (5-6 inches).
Far: Close enough to see very little detail, about 30–100
feet away. While in danger, a character must make an
Agility Roll to safely move from Far range into Melee range.
On a map: anything within the length of the long edge of a
piece of copy paper (11–12 inches).
VeryFar: Too far to make out any details, about 100–300
feet away. While in danger, a character must make an
Agility Roll to safely move from Very Far range into Melee
range. On a map: anything beyond Far range, but still within
the bounds of the conflict or scene.
Out ofRange: Anything beyond a character’s Very Far
range is Out of Range and usually can’t be targeted.
Range is measured from the source of an effect, such as the
attacker or spellcaster, to the target or object of an effect.
Aweapon, spell, ability, item, or other effect’s stated range is
a maximum range; unless otherwise noted, it can be used at
closer distances.
Optional Rule: Defined Ranges
Ifyour table would rather operate with more precise range
rules, you can use a 1-inch grid battle map during combat.
Ifyou do, use the following guidelines for play:
• Melee: 1 square
• VeryClose: 3 squares
• Close: 6 squares
• Far: 12 squares
• VeryFar: 13+ squares
• Out ofRange: Off the battlemap
MOVEMENTUNDER PRESSURE
When you’re under pressure or in danger and make an action
roll, you can move to a location within Close range as part of
that action. If you’re not already making an action roll, or if
you want to move farther than your Close range, you need to
succeed on an Agility Roll to safely reposition yourself.
An adversary can move within Close range for free as part of
an action, or within Very Far range as a separate action.
AREAOFEFFECT
Unless stated otherwise, all the targets of a group effect must
be within Very Close range of a single origin point within your
effect’s range.
LINE OFSIGHT& COVER
Unless stated otherwise, a ranged attacker must have line
ofsight to their intended target to make an attack roll. If a
partial obstruction lies between the attacker and target, the
target has cover. Attacks made through cover are rolled with
disadvantage. If the obstruction is total, there is no line of
sight.
CONDITIONS
Conditions are effects that grant specific benefits or
drawbacks to the target they are attached to.
STANDARD CONDITIONS
Daggerheart has three standard conditions:
HIDDEN
While you’re out of sight from all enemies and they
don’t otherwise know your location, you gain the Hidden
condition. Any rolls against a Hidden creature have
disadvantage. After an adversary moves to where they
would see you, you move into their line of sight, oryou
make an attack, you are no longer Hidden.
RESTRAINED
Restrained characters can’t move, but you can still take
actions from their current position.
VULNERABLE
When a creature is Vulnerable, all rolls targeting them have
advantage.
Some features can apply special or unique conditions, which
work as described in the feature text.
Unless otherwise noted, the same condition can’t be applied
more than once to the same target.
TEMPORARY TAGS
& SPECIAL CONDITIONS
The temporary tag denotes a condition or effect that the
affected creature can clear by making a move against it. When
an affected PC makes a move to clear a temporary condition
or effect, it normally requires a successful action roll using
an appropriate trait. When an affected adversary makes a
move to clear a temporary condition or effect, the GM puts
the spotlight on the adversary and describes how they do it;
this doesn’t require a roll but it does use up that adversary’s
spotlight.
Specialconditions are only cleared when specific requirements
are met, such as completing a certain action or using a
particular item.The requirements for clearing these conditions
are stated in the text ofthe effect that applies the condition.
DOWNTIME
Between conflicts, the party can take a rest to recover
expended resources and deepen their bonds. During a rest,
each PC can make up to two downtime moves.
When the party rests, they must choose between a short rest
and a long rest. If a party takes three short rests in a row, their
next rest must be a long rest.
If a short rest is interrupted, such as by an adversary's
attack, the characters don’t gain its benefits. If a long rest is
interrupted, the characters only gain the benefits of a short
rest.
A short rest lasts enough time for the party to catch its
breath, about an hour in-world. Each player can move domain
cards between their loadout and vault for free, then choose
twice from the following list of downtime moves (players can
choose the same move twice):
• Tend toWounds: Clear 1d4+Tier Hit Points foryourself or
an ally.
• ClearStress: Clear 1d4+Tier Stress.
• RepairArmor: Clear 1d4+TierArmor Slots from your or an
ally’s armor.
• Prepare: Describe how you prepare yourself for the path
ahead, then gain a Hope. Ifyou choose to Prepare with one
or more members of your party, you each gain 2 Hope.
At the end ofa short rest, any features or effects with a
limited number of uses per rest refresh and any features or
effects that last until your next rest expire.
A long rest is when the characters make camp and relax or
sleep for several in-game hours. Each player can move domain
cards between their loadout and vault for free, then choose
twice from the following list of downtime moves (players can
choose the same move twice):
• Tend toAllWounds: Clear all Hit Points foryourself or an
ally.
• ClearAll Stress: Clear all Stress.
• RepairAllArmor: Clear all Armor Slots from your or an
ally’s armor
• Prepare: Describe howyou prepare for the next day’s
adventure, then gain a Hope. If you choose to Prepare
with one or more members of your party, you each gain 2
Hope.
• Work on a Project: With GM approval, a PC may pursue
a long-term project, such as deciphering an ancient text
or crafting a new weapon. The first time they start a new
project, assign it a countdown. Each time a PC makes
the Work on a Project move, they either advance their
project’s countdown automatically or make an action roll
to advance it (GM’s choice).
At the end of a long rest, any features or effects with a limited
number of uses per rest or per long rest refresh and any
features or effects that last until your next rest or until your
next long rest expire.
DOWNTIME CONSEQUENCES
On a short rest, the GM gains 1d4 Fear. On a long rest, they
gain Fear equal to 1d4 + the number of PCs, and they can
advance a long-term countdown of their choice.
41 40 Daggerheart SRD Daggerheart SRD