DOMAIN CARDS
Each domain card provides one or more features your PC
can utilize during their adventures. Some domain cards
provide moves you can make, such as a unique attack or a
spell. Others offer passive effects, new downtime or social
encounter abilities, or one-time benefits.
DOMAIN CARDANATOMY
Each domain card includes six elements:
Level
The number in the top left of the card indicates the card’s
level. You cannot acquire a domain card with a level higher
than your PC’s.
Domain
Beneath the card’s level there is a symbol indicating its
domain. You can only choose cards from your class’s two
domains.
Recall Cost
The number and lightning bolt in the top right of the card
shows its Recall Cost. This is the amount of Stress a player
must mark to swap this card from their vault with a card
from their loadout.
Note: A player can swap domain cards during downtime
without paying the domain card’s Recall Cost.
Title
The name of the card.
Type
The card’s type is listed in the center above the title. There
are three types of domain cards: abilities, spells, and
grimoires. Abilities are typically non-magical in nature,
while spells are magical. Grimoires are unique to the Codex
domain and grant access to a collection of less potent
spells. Some game mechanics only apply to certain types
of cards.
Feature
The text on the bottom half of the card describes its
feature(s), including any special rules you need to follow
when you use that card.
LOADOUT&VAULT
Your loadout is the set of acquired domain cards whose
effects your PC can use during play. You can have up to
5 domain cards in your loadout at one time. Once you’ve
acquired six or more domain cards, you must choose five to
keep in your loadout; the rest are considered to be in your
vault. Vault cards are inactive and do not influence play
Note: Your subclass, ancestry, and community cards don’t
count toward your loadout or vault and are always active and
available.
At the start of a rest, before using downtime moves, you can
freely move cards between your loadout and yourvault, so
long as your loadout doesn’t exceed its five-card maximum.
To move a card from yourvault to your loadout at any other
time, you must mark a number of Stress equal to the vaulted
card’s Recall Cost (located in the top right of the card next to
the lightning bolt symbol). If your loadout is already full, you
must also move a card from your loadout to yourvault to make
space, though you can do this at no cost.
When you gain a new domain card at level-up, you can
immediately move it into your loadout for free. If your loadout
is already full, you must also move a card from your loadout to
yourvault to make space.
USAGE LIMITS
If a domain card restricts how often it can be used, you can
track such limits with whatever method you prefer, such
as turning the card sideways, flipping it facedown, or using
tokens.
Note: if an effect or ability gives you a number of uses equal
to a trait with a modifier of +0 or less, it grants you 0 uses.
CLASSES
A class is a role-based archetype that determines a PC’s:
• Access to Domains: Each class grants access to two
domains; players choose cards from these domains during
character creation and when leveling up.
• Starting Evasion and Hit Points (HP)
• Starting Items
• Class Feature(s)
• Class Hope Feature, a class feature that costs 3 Hope to
activate.
There are 9 classes in the Daggerheart core materials: Bard,
Druid, Guardian, Ranger, Rogue, Seraph, Sorcerer, Warrior,
and Wizard.
SUBCLASSES
Each class is divided into two subclasses, each of which
further defines and highlights one aspect of its class
archetype. Your chosen subclass grants the following:
• Spellcast Trait: the trait used on all Spellcast rolls.
• Foundation Feature: a unique starting feature that
establishes the identity and strengths of the subclass.
• Specialization Feature: an advanced feature that can be
gained on level up. For some subclasses, the specialization
feature grants a new ability; for others, it expands or
enhances a feature you already acquired through a class or
subclass.
• Mastery Feature: The mastery feature is a subclass’s most
powerful feature, which can be gained at higher levels.
For some subclasses, the mastery feature unlocks an
extraordinary new ability; for others, it’s the impressive
culmination of their subclass’s core feature.
The Daggerheart core set includes cards detailing each
foundation, specialization, and mastery feature. When you
acquire one of these features, take its card for use as a
reference during play.
BARD
Bards are the most charismatic people in all the realms.
Members of this class are masters of captivation and
specialize in a variety of performance types, including singing,
playing musical instruments, weaving tales, or telling jokes.
Whether performing for an audience or speaking to an
individual, bards thrive in social situations. Members of this
profession bond and train at schools or guilds, but a current
of egotism runs through those of the bardic persuasion. While
they may be the most likely class to bring people together, a
bard of ill temper can just as easily tear a party apart.
DOMAINS - Grace & Codex
STARTING EVASION - 10
STARTING HITPOINTS - 5
CLASS ITEMS - A romance novel or a letter never opened
BARD’S HOPE FEATURE
Make a Scene: Spend 3 Hope to temporarily Distract a
target within Close range, giving them a -2 penalty to their
Difficulty.
CLASS FEATURE
Rally: Once per session, describe how you rally the party
and give yourself and each of your allies a Rally Die. At level
1, your Rally Die is a d6. A PC can spend their Rally Die to
roll it, adding the result to their action roll, reaction roll,
damage roll, or to clear a number of Stress equal to the
result. At the end of each session, clear all unspent Rally
Dice. At level 5, your Rally Die increases to a d8.
BARD SUBCLASSES
Choose either the Troubadour or Wordsmith subclass.
TROUBADOUR
Play the Troubadour if you want to play music to bolsteryour
allies.
SPELLCASTTRAIT
Presence
FOUNDATION FEATURE
Gifted Performer: You can play three different types of
songs, once each per long rest; describe how you perform
for others to gain the listed benefit:
• Relaxing Song: You and all allies within Close range clear
a Hit Point.
• Epic Song: Make a target within Close range temporarily
Vulnerable.
• Heartbreaking Song: You and all allies within Close
range gain a Hope.
SPECIALIZATION FEATURE
Maestro. Your rallying songs steel the courage of those
who listen. When you give a Rally Die to an ally, they can
gain a Hope or clear a Stress.
MASTERYFEATURE
Virtuoso. You are among the greatest of your craft and your
skill is boundless. You can perform each of your “Gifted
Performer” feature’s songs twice per long rest.
WORDSMITH
Play the Wordsmith if you want to use clever wordplay and
captivate crowds.
SPELLCASTTRAIT
Presence
FOUNDATION FEATURES
Rousing Speech: Once per long rest, you can give a
heartfelt, inspiring speech. All allies within Far range clear
2 Stress.
Heart ofa Poet: Afteryou make an action roll to impress,
persuade, or offend someone, you can spend a Hope to
add a d4 to the roll.
9 8 Daggerheart SRD Daggerheart SRDSPECIALIZATION FEATURE
Eloquent. Your moving words boost morale. Once per
session, when you encourage an ally, you can do one of the
following:
• Allow them to find a mundane object or tool they need.
• Help an Ally without spending Hope.
• Give them an additional downtime move during their
next rest.
MASTERYFEATURE
Epic Poetry. Your Rally Die increases to a d10. Additionally,
when you Help an Ally, you can narrate the moment as
if you were writing the tale of their heroism in a memoir.
When you do, roll a d10 as your advantage die.
BACKGROUND QUESTIONS
Answer any of the following background questions. You can
also create your own questions.
• Who from your community taught you to have such
confidence in yourself?
• You were in love once. Who did you adore, and how
did they hurt you?
• You’ve always looked up to another bard. Who are
they, and why do you idolize them?
CONNECTIONS
Ask your fellow players one of the following questions for
their character to answer, or create your own questions.
• What made you realize we were going to be such
good friends?
• What do I do that annoys you?
• Why do you grab my hand at night?
DRUID
Becoming a druid is more than an occupation; it’s a calling for
those who wish to learn from and protect the magic of the
wilderness. While one might underestimate a gentle druid who
practices the often-quiet work of cultivating flora, druids who
channel the untamed forces of nature are terrifying to behold.
Druids cultivate their abilities in small groups, often connected
by a specific ethos or locale, but some choose to work alone.
Through years of study and dedication, druids can learn to
transform into beasts and shape nature itself.
DOMAINS - Sage & Arcana
STARTING EVASION - 10
STARTING HITPOINTS - 6
CLASS ITEMS - A small bag of rocks and bones or a
strange pendant found in the dirt
DRUID’S HOPE FEATURE
Evolution: Spend 3 Hope to transform into a Beastform
without marking a Stress. When you do, choose one trait to
raise by +1 until you drop out of that Beastform.
CLASS FEATURES
Beastform: Mark a Stress to magically transform into a
creature of your tier or lower from the Beastform list. You
can drop out of this form at any time. While transformed,
you can’t use weapons or cast spells from domain cards,
but you can still use other features or abilities you have
access to. Spells you cast before you transform stay
active and last for their normal duration, and you can talk
and communicate as normal. Additionally, you gain the
Beastform’s features, add their Evasion bonus to your
Evasion, and use the trait specified in their statistics for
your attack. While you’re in a Beastform, your armor
becomes part of your body and you mark Armor Slots as
usual; when you drop out of a Beastform, those marked
Armor Slots remain marked. If you mark your last Hit Point,
you automatically drop out of this form.
Wildtouch: You can perform harmless, subtle effects that
involve nature—such as causing a flower to rapidly grow,
summoning a slight gust of wind, or starting a campfire—
at will.
DRUID SUBCLASSES
Choose either the Warden ofthe Elements orWarden of
Renewal subclass.
WARDEN OF THE ELEMENTS
Play the Warden of the Elements if you want to embody the
natural elements of the wild.
SPELLCASTTRAIT
Instinct
FOUNDATION FEATURE
Elemental Incarnation: Mark a Stress to Channel one of the
following elements until you take Severe damage or until
your next rest:
• Fire: When an adversary within Melee range deals
damage to you, they take 1d10 magic damage.
• Earth: Gain a bonus to your damage thresholds equal to
your Proficiency.
• Water: When you deal damage to an adversary within
Melee range, all other adversaries within Very Close
range must mark a Stress.
• Air: You can hover, gaining advantage on Agility Rolls.
SPECIALIZATION FEATURE
ElementalAura: Once per rest while Channeling, you can
assume an aura matching your element. The aura affects
targets within Close range until your Channeling ends.
• Fire: When an adversary marks 1 or more Hit Points,
they must also mark a Stress.
• Earth: Your allies gain a +1 bonus to Strength.
• Water: When an adversary deals damage to you, you
can mark a Stress to move them anywhere within Very
Close range of where they are.
• Air: When you or an ally takes damage from an attack
beyond Melee range, reduce the damage by 1d8.
MASTERYFEATURE
Elemental Dominion: You further embodyyour element.
While Channeling, you gain the following benefit:
• Fire: You gain a +1 bonus to your Proficiency for attacks
and spells that deal damage.
• Earth: When you would mark Hit Points, roll a d6 per Hit
Point marked. For each result of 6, reduce the number
of Hit Points you mark by 1.
• Water: When an attack against you succeeds, you
can mark a Stress to make the attacker temporarily
Vulnerable.
• Air: You gain a +1 bonus to your Evasion and can fly.
WARDEN OF RENEWAL
Play the Warden of Renewal ifyou want to use powerful magic
to heal your party.
SPELLCASTTRAIT
Instinct
FOUNDATION FEATURES
Clarity ofNature: Once per long rest, you can create a
space of natural serenity within Close range. When you
spend a few minutes resting within the space, clear Stress
equal to your Instinct, distributed as you choose between
you and your allies.
Regeneration: Touch a creature and spend 3 Hope. That
creature clears 1d4 Hit Points.
SPECIALIZATION FEATURES
Regenerative Reach: You can target creatures within Very
Close range with your “Regeneration” feature.
Warden’s Protection: Once per long rest, spend 2 Hope to
clear 2 Hit Points on 1d4 allies within Close range.
MASTERYFEATURE
Defender: Your animal transformation embodies a healing
guardian spirit. When you’re in Beastform and an allywithin
Close range marks 2 or more Hit Points, you can mark a
Stress to reduce the number of Hit Points they mark by 1.
BACKGROUND QUESTIONS
Answer any of the following background questions. You can
also create your own questions.
• Why was the communityyou grew up in so reliant on
nature and its creatures?
• Who was the first wild animal you bonded with? Why
did your bond end?
• Who has been trying to hunt you down? What do
they want from you?
CONNECTIONS
Ask your fellow players one of the following questions for
their character to answer, or create your own questions.
• What did you confide in me that makes me leap into
danger foryou every time?
• What animal do I sayyou remind me of?
• What affectionate nickname have you given me?
11 10 Daggerheart SRD Daggerheart SRD